[Music]
here at fully charged there is a lot of
talk about electrification but of course
that implies the use of batteries and
the battery is still fundamentally quite
a mysterious thing we learned at school
that the point of a battery is to take
stored chemical energy and turn it into
electrical energy so there must be
chemical reactions involved but there's
no pipettes and no test tubes and lots
of stuff you'd see on a lab bench at
school so how does that actually work
and not more importantly how is it going
to work in the future and how much
better can a battery really get
[Music]
so we're here on the University of
Warwick campus they've just seen some
graduating students wandering past but
you've got very close ties with industry
and so actually what you've got here is
the whole chain you've got academic
research the pure stuff you've got
Applied Research you've got actual
industry users coming in or you know
right the way through the chain and that
that must give you huge advantages in
finding out what's going indeed it is
fundamental to have if you like input
and support and collaboration between
all those different aspects so our
industrial partners who set the context
and the problems that we need to solve
through to the academics you've got that
pure science background that grounds the
work that we do and we've got this big
wmg building behind us tell me a little
bit about wng what it does you know the
big-picture stuff okay so here at wmg we
work with industry to solve problems and
at the moment big focus is on energy
storage and how we can translate the
chemistry's and the battery types that
we know today into something that will
basically be usable in the future for
automotive for grit storage applications
and so on traditionally we've been
working with our automotive industrial
partner but as the batteries develop and
their capabilities improve as I said
it's opening up opportunities in other
industries
so in recent years we've started working
in rail in marine in aerospace and in
wearable electronics as well on wearable
batteries to cope with that what's
happening is we're developing new
chemistries new types of batteries new
battery designs it takes roughly five to
eight years for an experimental
chemistry to make it through into the
marketplace so we will see lithium-ion
chemistries on those derivatives around
for a long time to come but over time
with these different industries using
energy storage we'll start to see all
the chemistry types and other flavors if
you like of battery technologies
appearing in the market
[Music]
I'm off to meet Alex Roberts who's won
the lead engineers here he's going to
show me how these batteries are made so
this is where it all begins
yeah this is a typical graphite material
active material you find in the anode
for the vast majority lithium ion
batteries I like touching things but I
know I'm in a chemistry laboratories is
fairly innocuous this is the same
materials you'd find them how to be
pencil basically it's dug out of the
ground
purified they always brilliant about
that is that you know we're in a very
modern laboratory you do lots of things
but fundamentally grinding things and
polishing thing I mean that's that is
those that's what you did some materials
100 years ago but because we live in the
physical world
yup cent we have to do it now yes I mean
this there's a lot of different ways
that you can make some of these
materials but the go-to method for a lot
of the established chemistry's involves
heating up to maybe as high as a
thousand 1,200 degrees and then grinding
down so you get the different components
to react together at very high
temperatures and then you need to turn
it into a nice fine powder that we can
process it into actually making a
battery Archer
[Music]
this machine's next is it yes so this is
our reel-to-reel coder so what you have
here is what we would call a reverse
common roll setup where we'll take our
electrode inks and we'll put them onto a
metal foil so as you can see inside
there we have a copper foil this is set
up ready to coat an anode so this pink
it's very rare you see pink metal this
is very very high purity very high grade
copper which is a nice thing for that's
about 12 microns in thickness really
yeah it's been a super thin yeah okay
that's it the roll will rotate and we
will coat a thin layer of ink onto that
roll the copper foil comes in the other
direction and we transfer the ink from
the roll onto the foil so you've got 12
micron thickness of copper and how thick
is the layer of ink on top of that
that's one of the places that we can we
can vary this depending on the material
we're using depending on the final cell
that we look at so the rule of thumb is
if you want a higher power cell what are
the things that you would look at
changing is making a thinner coating if
you want a higher energy cell you'd make
a much thicker coating and then this
thing over here is the last bit is it
yes this is where we take our coated
electrode foil and put it through a
calendar for this calendar it's very
similar to an old-fashioned mangle a
very precise version where it's got two
large steel rollers and they apply
pressure under heat across the profile
of the foil so when you're squashing its
inner or you wash it all thinner and by
doing that you increase the density of
the material you've just put down so you
can get more into the same volume and
you also increase the adhesion between
the lathe put down and the foil
underneath across the width of an
electrode foil will give about three
tons per centimeter of compressions a
lot of compression that's all these
things that say don't put your fingers
in it they really mean it really don't
want to put your hands anywhere okay so
I love about all of this is this
combination of extremely fine control
and sort of very modern science and
fundamentally we are gluing carbon to a
piece of copper and putting it through a
mangle
we still live in the physical world
that's amazing those two things are
possible there's a huge amount of
background science that goes into it an
understanding that goes into it but the
processes are quite simple there's a lot
of control that goes into there
we're gonna go now into a driver so
inside there one one thing that
batteries really really hate more than
anything else is moisture so the place
where we assemble the batteries is a dry
room environment so normally you know
there's water in the air all the time
you don't really notice it but in there
there is almost nothing yes we will be
the wettest things in there
[Music]
so we have hallowed material which you
saw been coated before you can see on
copper and then we match this up with a
cathode so this has got a different
active material on there we coat it onto
a Lamia what we now need to do you stack
these up one on top of the other in a
very precise way and we need to put a
separator material in between the two
the separator material stops these two
physically short circuiting so it's
electrically insulating but allow is the
electrolyte material and the ions in
there to pass through it freely what you
can see here if I just start it running
is it's going to take an anode and a
cathode from the back it's like robots
there are all these little things moving
around but I expected you know sort of
nano manufacturing and all of these
complicated things and I'm sure that
does exist now this is much very plunker
thing on top of another thing you see
this is what they call a Zed fog
arrangement because you get the Z fold
and separating material the machine you
see here the stacker is one area where
we're looking a lot the next generation
it's one area that is a real holdup in
manufacturing so what other larger
manufacturers have got a lot of know-how
and expertise when changing these
materials so they go much much faster
[Music]
so we then hit seal around three sites
so you can see we end up with something
that looks like a little packet and you
end up with what we've called gas bag on
the top I know so this area this area
here when we take our electrolyte when
we fill it in so the liquid component
goes into the battery we then need to do
a very slow charge in a very controlled
charge and discharge to get the
chemistry that happens inside the
battery started so all of that gas out
there a very controlled environment and
then put a final seal on the top so we
have something like this now this is a
final battery some on the table between
us we've got a battery even though it
doesn't look much like the sort of
batteries we buy in the shops but this
is the crucial part of Technology right
so tell us a little bit about what it
isn't and how it works okay so this is a
lithium ion pouch cell it's an a5 just
like paper format cell that you'd find
typically one of these in an electric
vehicle within these electrodes we have
a lot of particles that store lithium
they store it reversibly so that when
you charge and discharge a battery the
lithium ions will move back and forth
both electrodes you know this is a
chemical reaction and so ions which are
charged atoms or molecules are actually
things are physically moving inside this
system absolutely yes they move back and
forth these electrodes and in the
meantime will drive a current and that's
what gives you your energy and the way
the materials can reversibly accommodate
the lithium let's take for example in an
anode which is the electrode printed on
copper the negative electrode if you
have graphite which is still the main
material of choice it's a layer layers
of carbon atoms and so because to the
small ionic radius of the lithium atom
it can fit quite nicely between the
graphite sheets and so for every six
carbon atoms
you can accommodate one looking and then
there's one other thing the other thing
is the key thing it's electrolyte which
is currently a number of organic
solvents with a lithium salt dissolved
within them which is your source the
main source of lithium ions and so and
it's important that it's liquid because
then things can move absolutely given
the how many lithium atoms have to move
lithium ions have to move they need to
move effortlessly and so certain
solvents favor that in terms of safety
developments going forward people are
developing non liquid electrolytes so
solid electrolytes which will be non
flammable and so the challenge there
lies in how fast we can move lithium
ions through them and that's why there
is still the majority are based on
solvents because of the speed of lithium
ion transfer what needs to get better to
make a better battery because the the
fundamental drawing hasn't changed but
the details have haven't they they have
indeed firstly the energy storage
systems of Galvani and Volta they
weren't reversible so that's the
difference and the difference between
lead acid and primary batteries so that
that is the major step change difference
that occurred became commercialized in
the early 1990s through Sony but then
now the efficiency we've referred to as
the columbic efficiency that's the
charge in versus charge out ratio and
there are a number of things that happen
there initially when you first charge a
battery if this is the surface of your
materials some of the electrolyte
solvent breaks down at low voltages
because it's it's it's not as stable so
what happens is you get breakdown of
some of the solvents and the lithium
salts and you get is what is calling SEI
layer which stands for a solid
electrolyte interface and that is been
researched a lot so you get this extra
little layer you go all this nice
structure
and then once you start running it it
gets coated with stuff that's right and
there's coating it's beneficial in one
respect because it passivates the
surface of the materials but it also
acts as an irreversible loss of lithium
and when you think of lithium being your
charge currency when you start to lose
it and this continues over time and this
is one of the challenges that leads to
inefficiencies in batteries so that's
one of the ways batteries can degrade
absolutely especially if you're if these
active materials are prone to volume
expansion then they'll start cracking
you get more surface area the more
surface area you get more sei you get
but also one of the other major physical
artifacts within batteries is when you
start getting cracking and so you start
isolating lithium and that leads to
continuous capacity fade which is why
you get a limited cycle life on a lot of
batteries and that is the major hurdle
to overcome in all from portable devices
to vehicles the range needs to be longer
therefore the cycle number needs to be
longer so with this basic idea you've
what you still got a lot of chemistry
physics go how much better can it get
let's talk about the future a little bit
what is a what new things are coming
along what advantages do they have what
is the future of the battery gonna look
like well a lot of people are working on
advanced divergences from classic
lithium ion metal air batteries have the
potential to deliver a lot of energy but
the power density is quite low and so
whilst there is a lot of interest in
such systems they are still some way of
being commercially viable so there are a
number of different chemistry's such as
lithium sulfur which can hold a lot of
energy but their reactants they can be
quite unstable within the electrolyte
solvents and then these things so for
example you know so lithium is a little
atom or an ion that can move about but
there are other small atoms like sodium
and magnesium that's right how are they
going to be leashed well sodium it's not
as energetic as lithium so it will it
energy density will be somewhat less and
it's a slightly larger ion and so the
materials it can interact with will be
different to lithium but the beautiful
thing about sodium iron is that for
things that don't require mass
reductions I even on mobile things if
you can have a big heavy battery that
just sits there absolutely and for grid
storage for example for load leveling on
the grid system if you can have huge
banks of sodium iron cells sitting and
merrily cycling away for tens of
thousands of cycles because a lot of
sodium iron chemistry's are stable and
sodium obviously very abundant and cheap
and cheap so there is a lot of active
research developing sodium ions one of
the big questions around new battery
technologies which is what you make them
from and you know elements like cobalt
for example we know that they're in
these batteries and they have their
problems what what are the options for
sorting out that problem okay well in
the first branch of lithium ion
chemistry's the cathodes are based on
lithium cobalt oxide so transition metal
oxide and cobalt has inherent toxicity
issues and not terribly straightforward
when we come to recycling battery so
ways that people are trying to overcome
the issues of cobalt is working on
different cathode chemistry's so to
achieve higher rates of performance
within batteries researchers developed
lithium ion phosphate and there are
other transition metal oxides such as
lithium manganese oxide the key is it's
always a trade-off with energy density
in power but a lot of research groups
and industry are looking at alternative
cathode
chemistry's for this very reason we're
standing next to this thing that looks
like an oven except it's a lot shinier
than my own what what is going on in
here okay so this is where we start to
test the batteries that we've either
developed or we've had delivered to us
batteries are increasing in their power
and energy density all the time so when
they can handle more and more power it
means that they're also generating more
and more heat so we have to understand
how quickly that heat generated where
it's generated and so on so it can
inform the thermal management side of
the equation and then the final aspect
is the mechanical behavior as well when
a cell is charged and discharged it will
actually expand and contract quite
significantly we have to characterize
that behavior as well because that then
plays into the mechanical design of your
battery module and then ultimately the
battery pack the aim of the laboratory
here is to charge and discharge those
batteries in a very controlled way so
where we can safely use the cell and at
which point we have to stop either
charging or discharging how quickly we
can charge and discharge and how hot or
how cold the batteries can be used as a
temperature plays a quite an important
aspect in the behavior of a battery so
you've not just got one of these I mean
there's a whole row of them here
since this is a scaled-up operation it's
lots of batteries tested in lots and
lots of different ways and just data
flooding in so we've expanded rapidly
over the last five or six years the
facility we're in now is probably four
times the size of the facility that we
started with with just adding new
laboratories as we speak so in a couple
of weeks we'll have a new what we call
aging and degradation laboratory which
is probably ten times the size of the
laboratory that we're in at the moment
there is an insatiable demand for
battery testing capability in the
industry particularly as we move into
the world of new chemistries new
applications and so forth we're one of
the largest open battery testing
facilities in the UK where UK
government-funded which means any
company within the UK is able to come in
and use these facilities and it's the
way that the UK government is trying to
drive innovation and new battery
manufacturing in the UK and what would
you like to see if you you know 10 years
down the line what would be the thing
that you the problem that you hope is
solved what's the thing that you just
you know that is the sort of itch you
want to scratch it's just a really good
question the the work we do here in
looking at really three aspects of
battery behavior one is the performance
better range better energy more power
one is safety and the other is cost and
classic engineering compromise you
generally at the moment you can't have
all of those so you have to decide which
of those is your priority but as we
improve our knowledge of how to build
batteries that costs will reduce me
we're using newer materials will improve
the range and the performance and also
consider the safety so my sort of my
dream ticket would be a a achill that
will recharge in five to ten minutes
give me a 200-mile range and is
intrinsically safe
[Music]
we inadvertently set this up as a market
store we're not actually selling
batteries here but we've got examples of
different ways of putting things
together inside these big battery packs
right which is something called the
format so tell me about the cases in the
industry there are essentially three
different flavors or shapes of batteries
that the customers and the different
industries can use so the first shape is
what's known as a cylindrical cell it's
a cylinder so that electrode material
that you saw being manufactured before
it's wound on a bobbin so essentially as
I semester off and it's then put into a
metal can and that's probably the
traditional battery that most people
will be familiar with out so that when
if you're going to use those so this
this this Tesla battery famously uses so
you can see the Tesla battery uses the
same format so it's got these small
swings it's just stacked up like look
you have lots and lots and lots and lots
of thousands and thousands of these
cells are used within the test so this
is one module and there are many of
these modules that then form the
complete vehicle battery so it's a very
sort of brute force approach we're just
gonna put more little batteries let's
make a big battery so there are
advantages in terms of cost and the
availability and that sort of form
factor but there are disadvantages as
well
if you've imagined putting cylinders
together in a particular shape sometimes
you'll lose money in officience it's not
so efficient there are advantages though
because the surgical cell itself being a
metal camp gives you mechanical strength
so your module design has made that
little bit simpler so that's one of the
other options so if someone comes along
to our market stall doesn't fancy the
cylindrical option your pouch is an
alternative it's a much bigger battery
so one of these cells is equivalent to
probably 10 of the cylindrical yeah so
it gives us more power more current and
being a flatter shape it's much easier
to firmly manage so we can get heat in
and out of this so it looks much better
for stacking it up looks like a sensible
shape it's a sensible shape in terms of
stacking but from the mechanical
perspective this material is quite sort
of structurally flimsy so from a
mechanical engineering point of view
that engineer has a slightly more
difficult test creating a package that
will accept these sorts ourselves we've
got cylindrical cells and pouch cells
and the last thing on our market stall
is over here and that's a prismatic cell
so a prismatic cell is essentially a
sort of a hybrid of those two different
types so what we have is a roll of the
electrode material so it's wound almost
like a cylindrical cell then imagine
that being flattened down and then
placed into a metallic box effectively
this gives you the advantage of being
mechanically rigid so mechanical design
is much easier than being flat you can
take energy so even inside these we've
got battery packs from different cars
here but inside they have they've got
one of these three there's only three
choice so chemically they're identical
it's just simply down to the the
manufacturers choice or priorities in
terms of thermal management power
handling mechanical design which might
send you in one particular direction
towards a surgical cell attack so or a
prismatic
it's so exciting to see the work that
they're doing here and especially to
hear about the ideas that coming down
the line for the future it's clearly a
place to watch if you enjoy the choice
you can support through patreon and the
details for that are all in the
description below this
I'm dr. Helen Chesky thank you for
watching
[Music]